=encoding utf-8

=pod

=head1 NAME

clawspeek - mimimalistic Claws Mail password recovery

=head1 SYNOPSIS

clawspeek <obfuscated_password>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

clawspeek receives an obfuscated password argument (as found in Claws Mail's 
accountrc file) and outputs it and the default unobfuscated equivalent on the
standard output.

The 'default unobfuscated equivalent' means that only Claws Mail default
obfuscation key is used. In the unlikely case that your software distributor
had changed such key this utility won't work for you, sorry.

=head1 OPTIONS

Not required. A single argument is mandatory.

=head1 USAGE

Some shells (B<bash(1)> for example) use ‘!’ as history expansion character.
That character is common in obfuscated password, so you must escape if from
shell. Enclosing the obfuscated password in single quotes is one simple way.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Let's say you have an account named "Test" in Claws Mail, and want to recover
the receiving password.

=over 2

=item Open your B<~/.claws-mail/accountrc> with an editor or pager

=item Search for a line with that account name: ‘account_name=Test’

=item Search below for the first line starting with ‘password=’, it
reads: ‘password=!Wffj/kf9h1M=’

=back

Then issue the command (notice the single quotes):

 $ claswpeek '!Wffj/kf9h1M='
 !Wffj/kf9h1M= -> passw0rd

You're done, your password was “passw0rd”.

In case of the sending password, after locating the account name,
look for the first line starting with ‘smtp_password=’ instead.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 2

=item 0

On success.

=item -1

If no arguments were supplied.

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

=over 2

=item Only recovers one password per run.

=item Only default obfuscation key is supported.

=back

=head1 BUGS

One user has mentioned problems with output which may be related to passwords
encoded with some invalid UTF-8 character. No further cooperation other than
this was given, so if you have similar problems open an issue.

Since decryption code is the same as Claws Mail itself, this bug applies:
L<http://www.thewildbeast.co.uk/claws-mail/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=2428>

Please, use GitHub issues list for bug reporting:
L<https://github.com/mones/clawspeek/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

claws-mail(1), bash(1).

=cut

